These are the topic suggestions for the next meeting, which will be held on the
8th July, at 19:00 London time. We appreciate suggestions, so please add the
topic you want to talk about down here:

## Topics for meeting of 2012/10/07

### How to get more contributors for the prototype

In the web design industry it is quite easy to find people who are interested in
a project such as ours, but to contribute to the prototype, C++ programming
skills are needed, which are harder to find. We'll discuss specific steps we can
take to improve the odds that knowledgeable developers join our case.

### JavaScript integration

Since our recent switch to Qt, which includes classes to add ECMAScript to Qt
based software (it uses V8 internally), we are now in a way better position to
add such capability to our prototype. This is one of the biggest things to come
in our next few releases, so we will discuss everything around how best to do
it, and how to integrate it with the rest of the language.

### Other uses of the AXR platform (library for mobile UI's?)

The primary goal of the AXR Project is to be a tool for creating web sites and
applications, but the need for creating graphical UIs in software is not
restricted to the web platform. The AXR libray could be a very useful tool for
using HSS for creating UIs of native applications. Android and iOS could be an
awesome target for this kind of use.

### User interaction and involvement

We'll discuss ideas and proposals for enhancements on our website, that will
increase the feedback and involvement of the people that stumble upon our
project.

### Ideas for improving our PR

We need to expand the social awareness of our project, to pick up a bit more
momentum and to raise the discussion. We'll brainstorm and debate ideas for how
we can improve in this area as a community.

## All topics (suggestions)

This is a general list of topic suggestions. Each of these will eventually be
promoted to actual topics, which will be discussed in a meeting.

- New rendering pipeline
- Improving our PR
- Incorporating JS engine (e.g. V8) into the prototype
- Security
- Accessibility
- Raising money (for servers, services etc)
  - partners
  - sponsors
  - transparency (association?)
- New usenet newsgroup
- Tutorials
- User interaction and involvement
  - a way to let the users vote (predefined list) on which feature will be added
    next to the prototype
  - put a price on certain features (donation)
  - prominently show the latest non-anonymous donations
- Posters.
- How to get more contributors for the prototype.
- Improvements for our website.
- Distribution of the Prototype.
  - Split up the core and platform components.
  - The core should be a shared library, the platform specific components use
    the core library.
  - Provide packages for installation.
- Auto-update capabilities (if and how)
