## What is AXR?

AXR is an open source project whose aim is to create a better alternative to
current web standards. Read the [Features](http://axrproject.org/about/features)
page to get more information.

## Why should I use AXR?

AXR improves the workflow of creating websites and web apps. Through the
improvements in productivity, more client time can be spent on improving the
User Experience or the page copy, for example, instead of wasting precious hours
in getting the darn page to show right in all browsers, using hacks to achieve
certain layouts, etc.

## Is AXR compatible with HTML and CSS?

It is compatible in the sense that pages written in HTML and CSS will continue
working in browsers as always. The goal of the project is to create an
alternative platform, that augments the options for developers, not breaking the
web.

That said, CSS code won't work in AXR, you'll need to port it to HSS. For the
HTML content, if it is written as a XML serialization, it could in theory be
used as content for AXR as well, with minimal changes, but this is not
recommended.

## How is HSS different from CSS?

HSS is inspired in CSS, but superior in many ways. The flexibility achieved with
the object orientation and other advanced features such as scope, references,
modularization, structural independence, etc, make it a joy designing and
styling with the language, instead of using background images, for example.


## When can I start using AXR in projects?

There is still a long way until we get to that point. We are currently working
on a prototype and the specification. If you would like to see it faster, please
consider contributing.

## Is AXR the same things as Flash?

Not at all. This is an open source project for the greater good of the web, not
a proprietary RIA. On the other hand, our goal is to create a new standard
natively supported by browsers. The browser plug-in version of the library is
just a stop-gap measure to be able to experiment with the technology before it
is adopted by browser makers.

## Is AXR open source?

Yes.

## What language is AXR written in?

For the prototype we're using C++. The wrapper for each platform can contain
specific code in other languages, such as Objective-C in the Mac wrapper.

## What browsers does AXR work with?

When we launch the plug-in, any browser which supports the plug-in architecture,
which is to say most modern browsers on the various desktop systems.

Our long term goal is to be available on all major platforms (including mobile).

## Is AXR a plugin?

Partially. While we do plan to release the library packaged as a browser
plug-in, this is just to provide backwards compatibility with browsers that
don't support the technology natively (at the time of writing, all browsers),
the end goal is that the browsers add support natively.

## Is AXR run by the W3C?

No, we're an independent group of volunteers, motivated by the desire to have
better tools for creating websites and apps. We would love to collaborate with
the W3C, though, and work together to create an awesome platform for the web.
